# Operating_System-MCQs

1. The part of machine level instruction, which tells the central processor what has to be done, is
- **Operation code**
- Address
- Locator
- Flip-Flop

2. Which of the following refers to the associative memory?
- the address of the data is generated by the CPU
- the address of the data is supplied by the users
- **there is no need for an address i.e. the data is used as an address**
- the data are accessed sequentially

3. To avoid the race condition, the number of processes that may be simultaneously inside their critical section is
- 8
- **1**
- 16
- 0

4. A system program that combines the separately compiled modules of a program into a form suitable for execution
- assembler
- **linking loader**
- cross compiler
- load and go

5. Process is
- program in High level language kept on disk
- contents of main memory
- **a program in execution**
- a job in secondary memory

6. Addressing structure
- **defines the fundamental method of determining effective operand addresses**
- are variations in the use of fundamental addressing structures, or some associated actions which are related to addressing.
- performs indicated operations on two fast registers of the machine and leave the result in one of the registers.
- all of the above

7. The Memory Buffer Register (MBR)
- is a hardware memory device which denotes the location of the current instruction being executed.
- is a group of electrical circuits (hardware), that performs the intent of instructions fetched from memory.
- contains the address of the memory location that is to be read from or stored into.
- **contains a copy of the designated memory location specified by the MAR after a "read" or the new contents of the memory prior to a "write".**

8. The strategy of allowing processes that are logically runnable to be temporarily suspended is called
- **preemptive scheduling**
- non preemptive scheduling
- shortest job first
- first come first served

9. The Storage-to-Storage instructions
- **have both their operands in the main store.**
- which perform an operation on a register operand and an operand which is located in the main store, generally leaving the result in the register, expect in the case of store operation when it is also written into the specified storage location.
- which perform indicated operations on two fast registers of the machine and have the result in one of the registers
- all of the above

10. The LRU algorithm
- pages out pages that have been used recently
- pages out pages that have not been used recently
- **pages out pages that have been least used recently**
- pages out the first page in a given area

11. Which of the following systems software does the job of merging the records from two files into one?
- Security software
- **Utility program**
- Networking software
- Documentation system

12. Fork is
- the dispatching of a task
- the creation of a new job
- **the creation of a new process**
- increasing the priority of a task

13. Thrashing
- is a natural consequence of virtual memory systems
- can always be avoided by swapping
- always occurs on large computers
- **can be caused by poor paging algorithms**

14. Supervisor state is
- never used
- entered by programs when they enter the processor
- required to perform any I/O
- **only allowed to the operating system**

15. Which of the following instruction steps, would be written within the diamond-shaped box, of a flowchart?
- S = B - C
- **IS A<10**
- PRINT A
- DATA X,4Z

16. Which of the following statements is false?
- the technique of storage compaction involves moving all occupied areas of storage to one end or other of main storage
- **compaction does not involve relocation of programs**
- compaction is also know as garbage collection
- the system must stop everything while it performs the compaction

17. Interprocess communication
- is required for all processes
- is usually done via disk drives
- is never necessary,
- **allows processes to synchronize activity**

18.Which of the following functions is(are) performed by the loader
- allocate space in memory for the programs and resolve symbolic references between object decks
- adjust all address dependent locations, such as address constants, to correspond to the allocated space.
- physically place the machine instructions and data into memory.
- **All of the above**

19. User-Friendly Systems are:
- required for object-oriented programming
- easy to develop
- common among traditional mainframe operating systems
- **becoming more common**

20. Which of the following addressing modes, facilitates access to an operand whose location is defined relative to the beginning of the data structure in which it appears?
- ascending
- sorting
- **index**
- indirect

21. While running DOS on a PC, which command would be used to duplicate the entire diskette?
- COPY
- **DISKCOPY**
- CHKDSK
- TYPE

22. Memory
- is a device that performs a sequence of operations specified by instructions in memory.
- **is the device where information is stored**
- is a sequence of instructions
- is typically characterized by interactive processing and time-slicing of the CPU's time to allow quick response to each user.

23. Which of the following rules out the use of GO TO?
- Flowchart
- HIPO-DIAGRAMS
- **Nassi-Shneiderman diagram**
- All of the above

24. A system program that sets up an executable program in main memory ready for execution is
- assembler
- linker
- **loader**
- compiler

25. Which of the following are loaded into main memory when the computer is booted?
- **internal command instructions**
- external command instructions
- utility programs
- word processing instructions

26. The FIFO algorithm
- executes first the job that last entered the queue
- **executes first the job that first entered the queue**
- execute first the job that has been in the queue the longest
- executes first the job with the least processor needs

27. What is the name given to the organized collection of software that controls the overall operation of a computer?
- Working system
- Peripheral system
- **Operating system**
- Controlling system

28. The principle of locality of reference justifies the use of
- reenterable
- non reusable
- virtual memory
- **cache memory**

29. The register or main memory location which contains the effective address of the operand is known as
- **pointer**
- indexed register
- special location
- scratch pad

30. Assembly code data base is associated with
- **assembly language version of the program which is created by the code generation phase and is input to the assembly phase.**
- a permanent table of decision rules in the form of patterns for matching with the uniform symbol table to discover syntactic structure.
- consists of a full or partial list or the token's as they appear in the program. Created by Lexical analysis and used for syntax analysis and interpretation.
- a permanent table which lists all key words and special symbols of the language in symbolic form.

31. Thrashing can be avoided if
- **the pages, belonging to the working set of the programs, are in main memory**
- the speed of CPU is increased
- the speed of I/O processor is increased
- all of the above

32. In analyzing the compilation of PL/I program, the term "Lexical analysis" is associated with
- recognition of basic syntactic constructs through reductions.
- **recognition of basic elements and creation of uniform symbols**
- creation of more optional matrix.
- use of macro processor to produce more optimal assembly code

33. Resolution of externally defined symbols is performed by
- **Linker**
- Loader
- Compiler
- Assembler

34. System generation:
- is always quite simple
- is always very difficult
- **varies in difficulty between systems**
- requires extensive tools to be understandable

35. The Memory Address Register
- is a hardware memory device which denotes the location of the current instruction being executed.
- is a group of electrical circuits (hardware), that performs the intent of instructions fetched from memory.
- **contains the address of the memory location that is to be read from or stored into.**
- contains a copy of the designated memory location specified by the MAR after a "read" or the new contents of the memory prior to a "write".

36. In virtual memory systems, Dynamic address translation
- **is the hardware necessary to implement paging**
- stores pages at a specific location on disk
- is useless when swapping is used
- is part of the operating system paging algorithm

37. Fragmentation of the file system
- occurs only if the file system is used improperly
- can always be prevented
- **can be temporarily removed by compaction**
- is a characteristic of all file systems

38. A non-relocatable program is one which
- **cannot be made to execute in any area of storage other than the one designated for it at the time of its coding or translation.**
- consists of a program and relevant information for its relocation.
- can itself performs the relocation of its address-sensitive portions.
- all of the above

39. Which of the following are(is) Language Processor(s)
- assembles
- compilers
- interpreters
- **All of the above**

40. In which addressing mode the effective address of the operand is the contents of a register specified in the instruction and after accessing the operand, the contents of this register is incremented to point to the next item in the list?
- index addressing
- indirect addressing
- **auto increment**
- auto decrement

41. The memory allocation scheme subject to "external" fragmentation is
- **segmentation**
- swapping
- pure demand paging
- multiple contiguous fixed partitions

42. While working with MS-DOS, which command will you use to transfer a specific file from one disk to another?
- DISKCOPY
- **COPY**
- RENAME
- FORMAT

43. What is the name of the operating system for the laptop computer called MacLite?
- Windows
- DOS
- MS-DOS
- **OZ**

44. In which addressing mode the contents of a register specified in the instruction are first decremented, and then these contents are used as the effective address of the operands?
- index addressing
- indirect addressing
- auto increment
- **auto decrement**

45. What is the name given to the values that are automatically provided by software to reduce keystrokes and improve a computer user's productivity?
- Defined values
- Fixed values
- **Default values**
- Special values

46. Page stealing
- is a sign of an efficient system
- **is taking page frames from other working sets**
- should be the tuning goal
- is taking larger disk spaces for pages paged out

47. In MS-DOS 5.0, which is the number that acts as a code to uniquely identify the software product?
- MS
- DOS
- MS DOS
- **5.0**

48. Bug means
- **A logical error in a program**
- A difficult syntax error in a program
- Documenting programs using an efficient documentation tool
- All of the above

49. Memory management is :
- not used in modern operating system
- replaced with virtual memory on current systems
- not used on multiprogramming systems
- **critical for even the simplest operating systems**

# Networking MCQs:

1. How many digits of the DNIC (Data Network Identification Code) identify the country?
- first three
- first four
- first five
- first six

2. A station in a network forwards incoming packets by placing them on its shortest output queue. What routing algorithm is being used?
- hot potato routing
- flooding
- static routing
- delta routing

3. The probability that a single bit will be in error on a typical public telephone line using 4800 bps modem is 10 to the power -3. If no error detection mechanism is used, the residual error rate for a communication line using 9-bit frames is approximately equal to
- 0.003
- 0.009
- 0.991
- 0.999

4. Frames from one LAN can be transmitted to another LAN via the device
- Router
- Bridge
- Repeater
- Modem

6. Which of the following condition is used to transmit two packets over a medium at the same time?
- Contention
- Collision
- Synchronous
- Asynchronous

# WEB Questions
Q1) A webpage displays a picture. What tag was used to display that picture? 

A. Picture

B. img

C. image

D. src
 
Answer : Option B
 

Q2) Which Of these standard collection classes implements a dynamic array?

A. AbstractSet

B. AbstractList 

C. LinkedList

D. ArrayList
 
Answer : Option D
 

Q3) How can you make a bulleted list?

A. < ol >

B. < ul >

C. < list >

D. < nl >
 
Answer : Option B
 

Q4) What is the output Of this program?

import java.util.*;

class Output

{

public static void main(String args[])

{

ArrayList Obj = new ArrayList( );

obj.add( "A");

obj.add(0, "B");

System.Out.println(obj.size( ) );

}

}

A. 1

B. 0

C. Any garbage value

D. 2
 
Answer : Option D
 

Q5) What is tuple?

A. A row or record in a database table

B. Another name for the key linking different tables in a database

C.  An attribute attached to a record 

D. Another name for a table in an RDBMS 
 
Answer : Option A
 

Q6) Reference is__________
A. alias of an object

B. used to rename an object

C. a special operator

D. a pointer to virtual function

Answer : Option A
 

Q7) Which of the following does NOT refer to a phase in Software Development Life Cycle?
A. Coding

B. Design

C. Testing

D. Object Oriented Design

Answer : Option D
 

Q8) Long int size is
A. 4 bytes

B. 2 bytes

C. compiler dependent

D. 8 bytes
 
Answer : Option C
 

Q9) Which of the following HTML elements create a horizontal rule?
A. <HRULE>

B. <RULE>="horizontal"</RULE>

C. <BR>

D. <HR>
Answer : Option D
 

Q10) Which of the following is true for an HTML document?
a) It consist of the text to be displayed on the Web page.

b) It consist of information about the formating and structuring of the Web page.

c) It consist of instructions to process the input taken from the Web page. 

A. Only C

B. a and b

C. a and c

D. b and c
Answer : Option B
 

Q11) The layer in the OST model handles terminal emulation
A. Session

B. Application

C. Presentation

D. transport
Answer : Option B
 

Q12) Choose the valid statement
A. All variables are initialized to 0 after declaration

B. Only local and static variables have junk values

C. Static and global variables are automatically initialized to zero at the time of declaration

D. All automatic variables are initialized to zero

Answer : OptionC
 

Q13) Merge sort algorithm uses___________________technique
A.Brute force

B.Dynamic programming

C.Greedy

D.Divide and conquer

Answer : Option D
 

Q14) Data communication system spanning states, countries or the whole world is called _____?
A. LAN

B. WAN

C. MAN

D. None of the above

Answer : Option B
 

Q15) What is the asymptotic worst case complexity of the given pseudo code
for(i=0;i {

for(j=0;j {

c[i][j]=0;

for(k=0;k {

c[i][j]=c[i][j]+a[i][k]*b[k][j];

}

}

}

A. O(n)

B. O(1)

C. O(n^2

D. O(n^3)?

Answer : Option D












